Cloud Banks of Blessings: Prayer to Guru Padmasambhava
by the Fifth Dalai Lama

nubchok dewachen na öpakmé
Buddha of Boundless Life, residing in Sukhāvatī to the West;
dru dzin po na pakchok jikten wang
Noble and Supreme World Lord, residing on Mount Potala;
sindu gyatsor tsokyé dorjé pal
Glorious Lake-Born Vajra, residing in the Sindu ocean;
orgyen yul du gyalpo tor chokchen
Turbaned King1 residing in the land of Uḍḍiyāna—I offer you this prayer.

solwa deb so tulku pema jung
Nirmāṇakāya Padmākara, please grant your blessings!
jingyi lob shik chimé rigdzin jé
Immortal vidyādhara, look upon me with compassion!
tukjé zik shik gangchen lha chikpu
Sole deity of the Snowy Land, please grant your blessings,
di chi samdön drubpar jingyi lob
So that all my wishes for this and future lives may be fulfilled!

jordrol chöpé shanta rakshita
Preserver of Peace, you engage in union and liberation;
lhasin dren khol dorjé drakpo tsal
Mighty Wrathful Vajra, you enslave gods and demons;
shyitro künzik shakya sengé shyab
Lion of the Śākyas, all-seeing buddha both fierce and peaceful,
sheja künkhyen loden choksé pal
Wise Seeker of the Sublime, knower of all there is to be known—I offer you this prayer.

solwa deb so tulku pema jung
Nirmāṇakāya Padmākara, please grant your blessings!
jingyi lob shik chimé rigdzin jé
Immortal vidyādhara, look upon me with compassion!
tukjé zik shik gangchen lha chikpu
Sole deity of the Snowy Land, please grant your blessings,
di chi samdön drubpar jingyi lob
So that all my wishes for this and future lives may be fulfilled!

chimé ku nyé tsewang rigdzin tsal
Deathless Vidyādhara, you attained the eternal body;
zahor yul du padma sambhava
Padmasambhava, you journeyed to Zahor;
mepung tso ru gyurwé padma gyal
Lotus King,2 you turned the fire into a lake;
mutek dul dzé sengé dra drokpa
Lion’s Roar, you tamed all heretics—I offer you this prayer.

solwa deb so tulku pema jung
Nirmāṇakāya Padmākara, please grant your blessings!
jingyi lob shik chimé rigdzin jé
Immortal vidyādhara, look upon me with compassion!
tukjé zik shik gangchen lha chikpu
Sole deity of the Snowy Land, please grant your blessings,
di chi samdön drubpar jin gyi lob
So that all my wishes for this and future lives may be fulfilled!

ngödrub chok nyé dorjé tötreng tsal
Mighty Lotus with Skull-Garland, you achieved the supreme siddhi;
trisong shyepa yong kong pema jung
Lotus-Born,3 you fulfilled King Trisong Deutsen’s every wish;
dü dang damsi dul dzé drowolö
Wild Wrathful Vajra,4 you tamed all demons and obstructors;
zangdok palrir ga karma drakpo tsal
Mighty Wrathful Karma, residing on the Copper-Coloured Mountain—I offer you this prayer.

solwa deb so tulku pema jung
Nirmāṇakāya Padmākara, please grant your blessings!
jingyi lob shik chimé rigdzin jé
Immortal vidyādhara, look upon me with compassion!
tukjé zik shik gangchen lha chikpu
Sole deity of the Snowy Land, please grant your blessings,
di chi samdön drubpar jingyi lob
So that all my wishes for this and future lives may be fulfilled!

gön khyö drowa kün gyi kyab gyur kyang
Protector, you are the refuge for all beings;
böyul tenpa nyi ö tabur sal
Like the sun, you illuminate Tibet with the teachings;
ri drak tso sok né kün jingyi lob
You suffused with your blessings Tibet’s caves, lakes and lands;
zabter drangmé gyé tab kadrinchen
In your kindness you concealed profound treasures beyond number—I offer you this prayer.

solwa deb so tulku pema jung
Nirmāṇakāya Padmākara, please grant your blessings!
jingyi lob shik chimé rigdzin jé
Immortal vidyādhara, look upon me with compassion!
tukjé zik shik gangchen lha chikpu
Sole deity of the Snowy Land, please grant your blessings,
di chi samdön drubpar jingyi lob
So that all my wishes for this and future lives may be fulfilled!

trinlé shyung sang chötö soldeb pa
During all activities—practices, offerings, prayers and praises,
miché güpé tukdam gyü kul na
If your wisdom-being is invoked with unshakable devotion,
dü kyi gyalpo tsé chu nam shar la
Then at sunrise on the excellent tenth day you will come!
jönpar shyal gyi shyepé dorjé sung
This is your vajra-speech and your promise!

lumé denpé drebu yolmé du
In your excellence, don’t delay—bestow now upon me
lekpar tsol chik orgyen trulpé ku
The result, the unfailing truth, Nirmāṇakāya of Uḍḍiyāna.
rewa kong shyik sampel wang gi gyal
This is my prayer—fulfil my hopes and grant my wishes.
soltab drebu tsol shyik pema jung
Padmākara, please grant me the fruits!

nying né dungshuk drakpö depa dang
My heart is filled with longing, and yearning devotion,
ngak né lhang lhang yang kyi soldeb na
And my speech is all suffused with clear melodious prayer,
zangdok pal gyi ri né pema jung
As you approach, Padmākara, from the Copper-Coloured Mountain,
pawo khandrö tsok ché dir shek la
Surrounded by hosts of ḍākas and ḍākinīs.

sal sal ku yi nangwa mik la tön
Your body—vivid, clear—appears before my eyes;
nyen nyen sung gi chö dra nawar drok
Your melodious dharma speech is pleasant to my ears;
lhö lhö tuk kyi jinlab nying la tim
Your mind’s soothing blessings enter my heart.
jin chen pob la wang shyi kur du sol
Please bestow your great resplendence and grant the four empowerments!

ngön lé lhasin trukpé tral kyen gyi
Agitated gods and demons from the past
mi chukné rim sé ser ul shying pong
Cause diseases, calamities, poverty and destitution
chok shyi maktruk tsönché kalpa sok
for men and beasts alike.
malü shyi shying dokpar jin gyi lob
In these times of warfare, with enemies all around,Grant your blessings, so that all may be
pacified, all disaster averted!

charchu dü bab lo chuk taktu lek
Bring timely rain! Let crops and livestock thrive!
tsering nemé lü ngak yi sum dé
Grant long life, without disease; set body, speech and mind at ease!
ta shyi jorpé lé go nampar ché
Open the gates of fortune in all directions!
dzokden gatön gyepar jingyi lob
Bless this golden age, that it may grow, in endless joy!

bö bang namyang yalwar mi dor shyé
Your pledge to the king, to the prince and subjects—
ngadak yabsé bang la shyal chepé
That you never would abandon the people of Tibet—
gyurmé dorjé sung gi dön gyi dré
This is the fruit of your unchanging vajra-speech.
ngönsum tsolwé gatön dü la bab
Let us celebrate this feast of your promise coming true!

dorna deng né lhündrub kuntuzang
From this day forth until my effortless attainmentOf everlasting excellence, Samantabhadra,
ma tob desi gönpo khyö nyi kyi
For as long as this takes, my sole protector,
jesu zung né chok dang tünmong gi
Care for me, I pray, and keep me sated
ngödrub dütsi chü kyi tsimpar dzö
With the elixir of the amṛta of supreme and common siddhis.

In order to benefit the practice of the magical tenth day, this prayer to the master Padmākara,
entitled Cloud Banks of Blessings, was spoken by the Monk from Zahor (i.e., the Fifth
Dalai Lama) at the request of Changling Samdrup Gyalpo, and was written down by Jampal.

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2018. (Translated by Stefan Mang and Kaleb Yaniger. Edited by
Libby Hogg.)
↑ Here and in the following verses the author invokes the various manifestations of Guru Rinpoche.
For poetic consideration we chose to translate Guru Rinpoche’s names into English.
So that the reader may easily identify them by their Tibetan names, we have italicized Guru
Rinpoche’s names whenever they appear in the Tibetan phonetics.↑ That is Pema Gyalpo or
Padmarājra.↑ That is Pema Jungne or Padmākara.↑ That is Dorje Drolö.